<!--

 Copyright (C) 2019 Intel Corporation

 SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

-->

Python Implementation of Test Automation
============================================

This is an implementation of TAF for automated testing

**Implementation.**<br />
The implementation is written in [Python 3][python].

It uses Robot framework to control automation and post results.


System Requirements
-------------------

TAF is targeted to run on Ubuntu Linux.

The TAF is implemented in version 3.6 of [Python][python], an
open licensed dynamic programming language available on all common
platforms.

To find out whether a compatible version of Python is
already installed on your system, execute `python3 --version` in a
terminal.

The command will return the version number if Python is
available.

Please see the *Using Python* part of Python's
[documentation][python-using] for system installation instructions.

Note that additional python packages may need to installed depending
upon what is supported by the python base version versus what is
needed by a particular TAF implementation.

This is usually easy to resolve by noting python import exceptions<br/ >
and then using pip to install the missing packages.

The TAF uses [robot framework][robot] for controlling the test cases.

For development, git is used to continuously develop
and review the code.

[Doxygen][doxygen] is used as the documentation tool.<br />
The doxypy plugin is used to allow test developers to comment the code in a
more pythonic way.

Program Execution
-----------------

The TAF framework runs from the command line using robot framework.<br />
During development, it is also possible for test case code to be
instrumented to run outside of robot.<br />
This can assist in debugging robot scripts as well as python code.

It is important to note that test cases are not "written in Robot".<br />
Robot is used by TAF in a lightweight manner, that is,<br />
to control the execution of testsuites, import keywords (python function<br />
names), and identify test case mappings from robot to python code.

### Example

Suppose you want to run the "Demo" test.
Go into directory testScenarios.  This is where the robot
files reside. The testScenarios directory contains UseCase sub-directories which
contains robot files and its associated configs one for each test scenario.

The directories under testScenarios need to have UC_ prefix (Use Case) inorder to be executed by
TAF Manager and/or run.py. It can contain 1 or multiple robot files each testing a specific sub feature.
It may contain a subdirectory named "config" that stores the configs files
needed for robot execution.

   ```shell
   user@testScenarios/UC_Color_Log_Demo:  robot demo.robot
   ```

Alternatively , run.py is a standalone version of TAF Manager will iteratively execute all the robot files for each config

   ```shell
   user@testScenarios:  python3 run.py -u UC_Color_Log_Demo
   ```

When running under robot do not use python print statements to
debug code. Use logging instead.<br />
If you have a particularly tricky bug, then implement code in your test script to run outside
of robot.<br />
There are scripts in testCaseApps subdirectories which have examples.

### Command Line Parameters using _run.py_
#### -u --use case


##TAF Directory Structure:
-	config : platform level configuration files are stored here.  These configuration files contain data that is the same for all test cases in a project, for instance, the URL of the cloud.
-	testArtifacts : this is where logs and robot output is stored.  Logs files generated by test cases should have the same basename as the robot file.  This will be discussed further in subsequent sections.
-	testCaseApps : This is where test case apps are stored. Test Case App is a set of libraries that automates the test procedure. These are totally
    specific to the solution under test and has the business logic.
    It is subdivided by use case types. Each test case app should have it’s own subdirectory within its use case type subdirectory.  Specific test cases may also have their own specific config files there also.
    These python libraries will be called by the robot files for performing test scenarios.
-	testScenarios : This is where robot files are stored.  A test scenario is the condition when a test case app will be run.
    A robot file can emulate one or more test scenarios.
    A set of robot files comprises of a test suite of similar functionality.
-	utils : This is where common utilities specific to the project are stored.  It is divided into subdirectories based upon the type of the utility.
    Test developers should always strive to write as generic code as possible.

Documentation
---------------------
//TODO

License
-------

Copyright (C) 2019 Intel Corporation

SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0


[python]: http://python.org "Python Programming Language"
[python-using]: http://docs.python.org/2/using/index.html "Python Setup and Usage"
[robot]: http://robotframework.org "Generic test automation framework for acceptance testing and ATDD"
[doxygen]: http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/ "Generate documentation from source code"
